Deadlines How-to (#2811)
AxonFramework/AxonFramework: docs/af-fundamentals-tutorial/modules/deadlines/pages/testing.adoc

= Testing the Deadline
:navtitle: Test the handler

> Testing behaviour related to deadlines is easy by using either the `SagaTestFixture` or the `AggregateTestFixture` these will include configuration to use a `StubDeadlineManager`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Testing behaviour related to deadlines is easy by using either the `SagaTestFixture` or the `AggregateTestFixture`. 
These include configuration to use a `StubDeadlineManager` that records scheduling and the passing of time, so the behavior can be checked thoroughly.
```

Author: Leaving out the `StubDeadlineManager' to keep it simple.

This makes it possible to simulate passing of time, and checking the behaviour.

[source,java]
----
class ExpiringGiftCardTest {

    private static final String CARD_ID = UUID.randomUUID().toString();
    private static final int DAYS = 30;
    private static final int AMOUNT = 1377;

    private AggregateTestFixture<ExpiringGiftCard> testFixture;

    @BeforeEach
    public void setUp() {
        testFixture = getTestFixture();
    }

    @Test
    void testCardExpiredAfterThirtyOneDays() {
        testFixture.givenNoPriorActivity()
                   .andGivenCommands(new IssueExpiringCardCommand(CARD_ID, DAYS, AMOUNT))
                   .whenTimeElapses(Duration.ofDays(31L)) // <1>
                   .expectSuccessfulHandlerExecution()
                   .expectEvents(new ExpiringCardExpiredEvent(CARD_ID));
    }

    private AggregateTestFixture<ExpiringGiftCard> getTestFixture() {
        return new AggregateTestFixture<>(ExpiringGiftCard.class);
    }
}
----

> <1> By elapsing time by 31 days, the deadline should have triggered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> By elapsing time by 31 days, the deadline should have been triggered and published a `ExpiringCardExpiredEvent`.
```
